.TH rot 7 "August 2024" "Version 1.0.5"
.SH NAME
rot \- a customizable ROTation cipher
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rot
.B -t
.B [-v]
.I input-file
.I [<output-file>]
.PP
.B rot
.B [-v]
.B [-n <number>]
.I input-file
.I [<output-file>]
.PP
.B command-to-stdout | rot
.B -t
.B [-v]
.I [<output-file>]
.PP
.B command-to-stdout | panama
.B [-v]
.B [-n <num>]
.I [<output-file>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rot
is a customizable rotation cipher, in that the user can provide the program
with an arbitrary decimal number and the program will, given input from a file or stdin,
will shift each printable character in the given input to that number. For example,
providing
.B rot
with an
.I -n
flag of 3, this will simulate a Caesar cipher of the input. 13 for ROT13, etc.
.PP
When given an input but no other arguments,
.B rot
will default to ROT47, a cipher similar to ROT13 except using an alphabet consisting
of all the printable ASCII characters.
.PP
When specifying an output file, the output file will be created if it does not already
exist, but will also overwrite any previous contents if it is a file that does exist.
.B rot
will not alter the input, however.
.B rot
is invokable through the terminal.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-t, --table"
Generates a shift table of each line of the input, from 1 to 13, to stdout or an output file
.IP "-n, --num"
With a decimal argument, describes the shift amount to use to encipher the input.
.IP "-v, --verbose"
Signals
.B rot
to output diagnostic and verbose information
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by anson <thesearethethingswesaw@gmail.com>
